This is a Galton board. It's got rows of
pegs arranged in a triangle and around
6,000 tiny ball bearings that I can pour
through the pegs. Now, each time a ball
hits a peg, there's a 50/50 chance it
goes to the left or the right.
>> [music]
>> So, each ball follows a random walk as
it passes through these pegs, which
makes it basically impossible to predict
the path of any individual ball, but if
I flip this over, what you can see is
that all the balls together always
create [music] a predictable pattern.
That is, a collection of random walks
creates [music] a normal distribution.
It's centered around the middle because
the number of paths a ball could take to
get here is the greatest, and the
further out you go, the fewer the paths
a ball could take to get there. Like, if
you want to end up here, well, the ball
would have to go left left left left all
the way down, so there's only one way to
get here, but to get into the middle,
there are thousands of [music] paths
that a ball could take.
The pioneer of using math to model
financial markets was Louis Bachelier,
born in 1870. [music]
Now, Bachelier believed a stock price is
just like a ball going through a Galton
board.
Each additional layer of pegs [music]
represents a time step. So, after a
short time, the stock price could only
move up or down a little, but after more
time, a wider range of prices is
possible.
According to Bachelier, the expected
future price of a stock is described by
a normal distribution centered on the
current price, which spreads out over
time.
Bachelier realized he had rediscovered
the exact equation which describes how
heat radiates from regions of high
temperature to regions of low
temperature. This was first discovered
by Joseph Fourier back in 1822.
So, Bachelier called his discovery the
radiation of probabilities.